When we just begin to loose hope in Hindi Cinema, movies like Highway are made which makes us fall in love with Bollywood all over again. Highway is definitely not a typical Hindi movie made these days. It has a soul in it.

Watching Imtiyaz Ali's movie is like reading a book. Every emotion is expressed in such a way that you remain in a long hangover even days after watching his creation. May it be 'Socha na tha', 'Jab we Met', 'Love aaj kal' , ' rockstar' and now 'Highway' in one point or the other one could relate them self with the characters.

Highway is one such movie where silence is the weapon used with just the characters talking with their performance. They don't need hefty dialogues, well nor do they need mere words to convey the emotions that they are going through.

The most surprising factor was Alia bhat. No one would have imagined after watching SOTY that she could deliver such a terrific performance. But she has nailed it as Veera. Veera makes us smile, cry and also laugh when least expected and makes us fall in love with her. Randeep Hooda is up to the mark. Mahabir is tailor made character for Randeep. I cant imagine anyone playing Mahabir with such an ease.

Not to forget, the major credit goes to cinematographer as well. The location are captured in such a way that you can almost smell the Highway and feel the chill of chilling mountains. I could not afford to even wink my eyes, especially in the second half of the movie as the screen has turned so mesmerizing which has a capacity to leave ones eyes struck to the screen and the mouth open in an awe.

I heard few people complaining that the climax is not satisfactory. But, I personally think that this was the perfect climax for such a story.

The movie will stay with you long after you are out of the cinema hall. Which rarely happen these days.

Don't go to watch it with high expectations. You will be disappointed. Just go with a calm mind and slowly get indulge in the beauty of this magical movie.